Welcome to the bootstrap for a crash course.
S. Let's quickly discuss our goals upon completion of this section by the end of this section.
You should have an understanding of a bootstrap is you should be able to get and use the bootstrap component
templates and the documentation specifically be able to create nav bars.
Since we'll be using those a lot within our web applications and understand in general how to use that
documentation.
So let's quickly start off by understanding what bootstrap is at its very core bootstrap is really just
a very large CSSA file and a very large javascript file.
However in practice it's really a lot more than that.
Bootstrap has pre-built to use components that you can incorporate into your web applications and what
that means is we're going to be able to make our Web sites look nice and have basic functionality on
the front end without having to do a whole lot of work and bootstrap is going to save us a lot of time
or making those websites look clean which is important because as we're dealing with the tedious work
of the back and with Python flask and learning all that new material we don't have to have to worry
about each TMLC SS bootstrap is going to make those websites look nice on the front end for us now it's
easiest to understand how this actually works by going to the bootstrap documentation.
So let's quickly go to.
There'll be W.W. that get bootstrapped dot com or just google search Bitstrips and it'll take you to
this page.
Let's head over to the page on our browser.
OK.
Here we are at get bootstrapped dot com on the bootstrap documentation page.
And if you scroll down you'll notice that there's a bootstrap CDN.
So there's two ways of using bootstrap.
One is to just manually download the CSSA and javascript files and linked to them manually.
Just as we would link our own CSSA files.
Or you can easily just copy the CSSA link as well as these javascript links and Jake Query links and
they're hosted on what's known as a Cdn or content delivery network.
So as long as your Web site has some sort of link to the Internet it can grab these automatically from
the Internet.
So you don't need to actually download the files themselves.
Then typically that's what we're going to be using because it's really simple you just copy and paste
these four lines of code and then you can use bootstrap.
So we haven't really explored what bootstrap is before we do that let's check out some examples.
So scroll up here and click on examples in the navigation bar.
And they'll take it to some examples it can download the source code for all these examples as well
comes in a nice zip file.
But you'll notice if we start opening some of these in new tabs there's many different ways you can
use bootstrap.
So here's an example of bootstrap being used for a pricing page.
So we see here there's a navigation bar at the top.
There's kind of a nice container holding things in the center and then we see these cards first sign
up for free get started.
And then there's a nice footer here at the bottom.
So that's a very typical example of what our web sites will look like after implementing bootstrap on
them.
So here you can see a checkout for example you can provide your name.
Essentially it's a really nice looking form and we can see what's in the car.
There's a carousel temple template excuse me and you can see here the carousel allows you to see more
photos.
And then we can see other panels and little cards here as well.
One more cover template for kind of a home page features contact.
Here's a product example.
So all of these are built with bootstrap.
So what does that actually mean.
If we go back to get bootstrap that come come back to home.
And if you click on documentation you'll notice that there's lots of information here.
Introduction download contents.
Essentially what we need to understand is this basic concept.
Let's say I want to add a navigation bar to my actual Web site.
All I need to do is come to documentation component's scroll down until I find the component I'm looking
for such as nav bar.
Click on that it'll explain how it works.
So we can see the various classes the supported content as well.
And most importantly we see these nice examples with their direct code below them.
So what does that actually mean.
It means that we have this navigation bar as it dropped down.
It has a search button etc. and here we see the actual code that builds it out.
So here's the navigation bar code and you'll notice that there's these class calls.
So if I zoom in here you'll see these specific class calls and these are the class calls that come with
bootstraps CSSA file.
So that's the really important part.
So let's say you want to add maybe a form to your Web site.
Will you come to components click on forms read the overview and then you can see here a really nice
looking form.
And that's where you're going to use your skeleton code.
So here we can see the form and we're already familiar of H.T. and all forms.
All you need to notice is that there's various classes here and these classes again make it look really
nice and you can always customize it yourself with your own C SS classes.
And then there's I just scroll down more examples of things like form control multiple select etc. and
you can always copy and paste this example code.
So if you scroll down you'll see tons of examples that are super useful.
OK.
So by the end of this section of the course you should have a really comfortable feeling of coming over
to the documentation page looking at the various components deciding on which one you want to add to
your actual Web site.
For instance we'll learn about how to add a Jumbotron that's really useful.
You'll copy this and be able to use his example code a lot of it is just copying and pasting from the
documentation and then making custom adjustments for your own Web site coming up next we'll begin to
actually learn some of these key components that we're going to be using to bootstrap.
We'll see if they're.